<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>01.2 Making A Web Page</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackedit.io/style.css" />
</head>

<body class="stackedit">
  <div class="stackedit__html"><h1 id="making-a-web-page">01.2 Making A Web Page</h1>
<p>To code a web page, we need to create an HTML file. This is basically a text document, but it is saved with the <code>.html</code> file extension (instead of something like  <code>.txt</code> or <code>.docx</code> for text documents).</p>
<h3 id="step-1-open-your-text-editor">Step 1: Open Your Text Editor</h3>
<p>Let’s begin by opening Visual Studio Code (VS Code for short). (<em>Remember, you can technically create html files in any text editor. Programs like VS Code just offer tools to make coding easier.</em>)</p>
<p>If this is the first time your using the program, you will be greeted with a <strong>Welcome Screen</strong> with some options.</p>
<h3 id="step-2-create-a-folder-and-file">Step 2: Create A Folder and File</h3>
<p>Select the <strong>Open folder…</strong> option. This will open your documents folder.</p>
<p><strong>Organization is key!</strong><br>
<em>Technically, you could select the <strong>New File</strong> option, but I recommend first creating a folder to save your work and keep it organized. When coding,  it is very important to keep your files organized so you don’t lose files, or get files for different projects mixed up.</em></p>
<p>Inside your documents folder you should see a folder called <strong>GitHub</strong> created when you installed <strong>GitHub Desktop</strong>. Open this folder. (<em>If you’re not using GitHub create a folder to store your code.</em>)</p>
<p>Create a new folder inside of the <strong>GitHub</strong> folder. Name this folder something like <strong>WebDevCourse</strong>. This will be the main folder where you keep all of the code for this course. You can create subfolders for individual projects.</p>
<p>Now select your new folder, and click <strong>Open Folder</strong>.</p>
<p>Your editor will open a window. On the left you will have an <strong>Explorer</strong> showing the files in you folder. Currently this is empty. On the right is the main work space, where you will view files and write code.</p>
<p>Hover your mouse over the <strong>Explorer</strong>, and you will see icons appear for creating a new file and a new folder. Click on the <strong>New File</strong> icon (<em>or right-click and select New File</em>). A new file will appear, with a blinking input for the file name. Name the file <strong>my-first-webpage.html</strong> and hit <strong>Enter</strong>.</p>
<p>Your new file will open in the main screen on the right, with the filename in the Tab at top.</p>
<h3 id="step-3-run-html-in-a-browser">Step 3: Run HTML In A Browser</h3>
<p>Now that you have an HTML document to work with, let’s try running it in a browser.</p>
<p>Type some text, like “Hello World!” inside of your document, and save. (You can use the shortcut <strong>Ctrl</strong>+<strong>S</strong>, or select <strong>File</strong> then <strong>Save</strong>.)</p>
<p>Now, open a web browser and drag this file into an empty tab. Your “Hello World” text will display on screen! The browser is reading your HTML file, and converting it into a web page.</p>
<h3 id="step-3-12-using-vs-code-extensions">Step 3 1/2: Using VS Code Extensions</h3>
<p><em>It would be pretty annoying to have to drag a file into the browser each time we wanted to run it. Instead, we can use a <strong>VS Code Extension</strong> to make this easier. There are thousands of extensions available for VS Code, each is a set of tools that help you in some way.</em></p>
<p>Let’s add our first extension to help us run HTML.</p>
<p>Click on the <strong>Extensions</strong> icon on the left toolbar. Type in open in browser in the <strong>Extensions: Marketplace</strong> searchbar. I’m currently using “open in browser” by TechER, but you can choose any similar extension. Click <strong>Install</strong>.</p>
<p>Now if you right-click on a file in the <strong>Explorer</strong> you should see an option to <strong>Open In Default Browser</strong>.</p>
<p>Another great extension is <strong>Live Server</strong> by Ritwick Dey. Not only will this extension open a file in the browser, it will automatically update your page every time you save a change. Install this extension! It will save you a lot of time, because you will be able to see any changes you make immediately.</p>
<h3 id="step-4-use-the-html-starter-template">Step 4: Use The HTML Starter Template</h3>
<p>As we saw in step 3, you can just add text to an HTML file, and the browser will do its best to display the file.</p>
<p>However, using proper HTML will allow us to control the layout of our page, and will ensure that all browsers display the content correctly.</p>
<p>To do this, all HTML pages use a standard template. Here is a simple HTML starter template. Copy it carefully into your page.</p>
<pre><code>&lt;!DOCTYPE  html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
&lt;head&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;My First Web Page&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;/head&gt;
&lt;body&gt;

&lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</code></pre>
<p>This template begins with a special tag that declares the “doctype”. This tells the browser which format to use. We are using standard html, so our “doctype” is html.</p>
<p>Then we have an <code>&lt;html&gt;</code> tag, with the closing tag <code>&lt;/html&gt;</code> at the bottom. These tags create an imaginary box, where our HTML instructions will live.</p>
<p>The page is divided into two sections, the “<strong>head</strong>” and the “<strong>body</strong>”, each wrapped in tags.</p>
<p>The <strong>head</strong> contains information for the browser that doesn’t get displayed on the page. For now we only have a <strong>title</strong> in the <strong>head</strong>. This title sets the text that displays in your browser’s tab when this web page is open. (Later will we add more to our head section.)</p>
<p>The <strong>body</strong> is where you put everything that you want to appear on your web page.</p>
<p>Save your web page and open it in the browser (or use Live. Notice the title appears in the tab, but the page is blank.</p>
<h3 id="step5-add-content">Step5: Add Content</h3>
<p>Let’s add content to your page.</p>
<p>Add a header in your page <strong>body</strong> that says “My Website”.</p>
<pre><code>&lt;body&gt;
	&lt;h1&gt;My Website&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;/body&gt;
</code></pre>
<p>The <code>&lt;h1&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;</code> tag create a level 1 header. You can create smaller headers using <strong>h2</strong>, <strong>h3</strong> and so on. (<em>Microsoft Word using a similar system same system in their Styles Tab.</em>)</p>
<h4 id="important-organization-is-key.">Important! Organization is Key.</h4>
<p><em>Notice that the <strong>h1</strong> tag is indented. This doesn’t matter for the computer, but it helps us humans see which HTML elements live inside of other HTML elements. Indenting code is very important for keeping your code organized.</em></p>
<p>Now let’s add some regular text. This goes in a “<strong>p</strong>” (paragraph) tag like this:</p>
<pre><code>&lt;body&gt;
	&lt;h1&gt;My Website&lt;/h1&gt;
	&lt;p&gt;I am learning Web Development!&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/body&gt;
</code></pre>
<p>Congratulations! You have created a basic web page with a Title, and some content. Be sure to save your file, and view the result in the browser.</p>
</div>
</body>

</html>
