<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>01.3 Understand HTML Elements</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackedit.io/style.css" />
</head>

<body class="stackedit">
  <div class="stackedit__html"><h1 id="understand-html-elements">01.3 Understand HTML Elements</h1>
<p>Before learning more HTML tags, it is important to understand HTML blocks.</p>
<p>In the early days of the printing press, text and images were literally blocks that were engraved, inked and pressed onto a page to produce an image. If you’ve ever used rubber stamps, it is very similar.</p>
<p>HTML works in a similar way. The page is viewed a piece of graph-paper made of blocks. Everything you add to you page, known as an HTML <strong>element</strong>, are rectangular block that sits on the page.</p>
<p><strong>Elements</strong> can live inside of other <strong>elements</strong>. This is called a <strong>nested</strong> element. The outer and inner elements are also called the parent element and the child element. Imagine your page elements are a bunch of sticky notes of different sizes. You can arrange smaller elements on larger ones to form a group, and then move these larger groups around your page.</p>
<p>Some <strong>elements</strong> will take up the full width of the page. These are called <strong>block</strong> elements.</p>
<p>Some smaller elements live inside of a line, like a <strong>b</strong> tag to make some text bold. These are called <strong>inline</strong> elements.</p>
<p>The header and paragraph elements are <strong>block elements</strong>. Let’s update our web page to add some inline elements. Notice how the <code>&lt;p&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</code> tags are organized visually.</p>
<pre><code>&lt;body&gt;
	&lt;h1&gt;My Website&lt;/h1&gt;
	&lt;p&gt;
    	I am learning Web Development!
    	&lt;b&gt;This is bold text&lt;/b&gt; and &lt;i&gt;this is italicized text&lt;/i&gt;.
	&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/body&gt;
</code></pre>
<h3 id="exploring-elements-in-the-browser">Exploring Elements In The Browser</h3>
<p>Open your web page in the browser. Right-click your mouse. This will open a menu. Select <strong>Inspect</strong>.</p>
<p>A panel will open on the right of your browser. Welcome to the <strong>Chrome Developer Tools</strong>! You will see your HTML. If you hover your mouse over the HTML, it will highlight the corresponding element.</p>
<p>Notice that each <strong>block element</strong> is a rectangle that extends across the entire page, and has a margin around it. (For now, these margins are set by the browser defaults. Later we will learn how to change the layout and position of our elements.)</p>
<p>Notice that each <strong>inline element</strong> is confined to its text without extending across the page.</p>
<p>Also, notice that the two lines of text in our paragraph are displayed on one line. The browser <em>ignores white space</em> in our file. That means if we want text to start on a new line, we need a new block element. Text in the same block element will extend to the end of the screen and only wrap to a new line if there is no more space.</p>
<h3 id="open--close-vs-self-closing-tags">Open / Close vs Self-Closing Tags</h3>
<p>Some <strong>HTML</strong> tags need an opening and closing tag. Others just have a single tag, without a separate closing tab—these are called “self-closing tags.”</p>
<p>The difference really comes down to whether or not that element needs to surround text. For example, the <strong>h1</strong> heading tag needs to surround all of the words that we want to mark as a heading. On the other hand, an image tag places adds an image to the page, but doesn’t surround any text.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<h4 id="open--close-tags">Open / Close Tags</h4>
<p><code>&lt;h1&gt;</code>This is A Heading<code>&lt;/h1&gt;</code><br>
<code>&lt;p&gt;</code>This is a paragraph…<code>&lt;/p&gt;</code></p>
<h4 id="self-closing-tags">Self-Closing Tags</h4>
<p><code>&lt;img&gt;</code><br>
<code>&lt;br&gt;</code> This adds a line break.</p>
<h3 id="tag-attributes">Tag Attributes</h3>
<p>Sometimes, we need to provide additional information or custom settings to our tags. These are called <strong>tag attributes</strong>, and are added inside of a tag. We we learn more about these later.</p>
<p>Here are some examples:</p>
<p><code>&lt;img src="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emoji#/media/File:Noto_Emoji_KitKat_263a.svg" alt="Smiley face" width="42" height="42"&gt;</code></p>
<p>In this tag we define four attributes:</p>
<ol>
<li><strong>src</strong> (Source), this is the location of the image file.</li>
<li><strong>alt</strong> (Alternate text), this is the text to display if the image can’t be loaded, or someone is using a screen reader.</li>
<li><strong>width</strong> the width of the image.</li>
<li><strong>height</strong> the height of the image.</li>
</ol>
<p>Don’t worry about memorizing all of the tags or tag attributes. You can easily find all of that online, and you will quickly become familiar with the most common tags and attributes.</p>
</div>
</body>

</html>
