<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>01.4 Important HTML</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackedit.io/style.css" />
</head>

<body class="stackedit">
  <div class="stackedit__html"><h1 id="important-html-elements">01.4 Important HTML Elements</h1>
<p>Here are some of the most common HTML elements. There are more that are less common, which you can lookup on <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/tags/">W3School</a>, or <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element">MDN</a>.</p>
<p>The most common tags fall under the following categories.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Text and Layout</strong><br>
Adding text, headers, and white space</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Lists and Tables</strong><br>
Adding lists and tables</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Media and Links</strong><br>
Adding images, audio, videos, and links</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Forms and Input</strong><br>
Adding forms like login, date pickers, option selection, and any kind of input</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>I’ll List them here for reference, and then we’ll learn how to use them.</p>
<h3 id="text-and-layout">Text and Layout</h3>
<p><code>&lt;!-- --&gt;</code> This is a comment for notes to self and others. It will be ignored by the browser.<br>
<code>&lt;html&gt;&lt;/html&gt;</code> This creates a container for html. All of your other tags should be inside of this.<br>
<code>&lt;head&gt;&lt;/head&gt;</code> Holds meta data for the browser. Not displayed on page.<br>
<code>&lt;body&gt;&lt;/body&gt;</code> Holds everything to be displayed on page.</p>
<p><code>&lt;div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;</code> A generic box element for grouping other elements or styling.<br>
<code>&lt;span&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</code> A generic inline element for grouping or styling.</p>
<p><code>&lt;p&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</code> A box for a paragraph of text.</p>
<p><code>&lt;h1&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;</code> A level 1 header.<br>
<code>&lt;h2&gt;&lt;/h2&gt;</code> A level 2 header.<br>
<code>&lt;h3&gt;&lt;/h3&gt;</code> A level 3 header.<br>
<code>&lt;h4&gt;&lt;/h4&gt;</code> A level 4 header.<br>
<code>&lt;h5&gt;&lt;/h5&gt;</code> A level 5 header.<br>
<code>&lt;h6&gt;&lt;/h6&gt;</code> A level 6 header.</p>
<p><code>&lt;br&gt;</code> Creates a line break (like enter or return on a keyboard).<br>
<code>&lt;hr&gt;</code> Creates a horizontal rule—a line across the box to visually separate elements.</p>
<h3 id="formatting-text">Formatting Text</h3>
<p><code>&lt;b&gt;&lt;/b&gt;</code> <strong>Bold text</strong><br>
<code>&lt;strong&gt;&lt;/strong&gt;</code> <strong>Bold text</strong><br>
<code>&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;</code> <em>Italic text</em><br>
<code>&lt;em&gt;&lt;/em&gt;</code> <em>Italic text</em></p>
<p>In HTML5  <code>&lt;b&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;i&gt;</code> are supposed to be used when the text is not meant to be emphasized, while <code>&lt;strong&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;em&gt;</code> are indicating special importance or emphasis to the word/s. In practice, these conventions are not widely obeyed.</p>
<h3 id="lists">Lists</h3>
<p><code>&lt;ul&gt;&lt;/ul&gt;</code> An unordered list (bullet point list)<br>
<code>&lt;ol&gt;&lt;/ol&gt;</code> An Ordered list (numbered list)<br>
<code>&lt;li&gt;Item 1&lt;/li&gt;</code> An item in a list</p>
<h3 id="tables">Tables</h3>
<p><code>&lt;table&gt;&lt;/table&gt;</code> Defines a table element<br>
<code>&lt;tr&gt;&lt;/tr&gt;</code> Adds a row to a table<br>
<code>&lt;th&gt;&lt;/th&gt;</code> Adds a heading to a table cell<br>
<code>&lt;td&gt;&lt;/td&gt;</code> Adds data to a table cell</p>
<h3 id="images">Images</h3>
<p><code>&lt;img&gt;</code> Adds an image<br>
<code>&lt;canvas&gt;</code> Used to display graphics or animations drawn by program</p>
<h3 id="audio--videos">Audio / Videos</h3>
<p><code>&lt;audio&gt;&lt;/audio&gt;</code> Add audio element<br>
<code>&lt;video&gt;&lt;/video&gt;</code> Add video element<br>
<code>&lt;source&gt;</code> Defines the location of source files for audio or video</p>
<h3 id="links-and-scripts">Links and Scripts</h3>
<p><code>&lt;a&gt;</code> A hyperlink<br>
<code>&lt;link&gt;</code> Links to an external resource, usually a style sheet.<br>
<code>&lt;nav&gt;&lt;/nav&gt;</code> Defines navigation links.<br>
<code>&lt;script&gt;&lt;/script&gt;</code> Adds JavaScript to a page</p>
<h3 id="forms">Forms</h3>
<p><code>&lt;form&gt;&lt;/form&gt;</code> Creates a form element<br>
<code>&lt;input&gt;</code> Adds an input field to a form<br>
<code>&lt;button&gt;</code> A button<br>
<code>&lt;select&gt;&lt;/select&gt;</code> Creates a drop-down list to select from<br>
<code>&lt;option&gt;</code> Adds an option to a drop-down list</p>
</div>
</body>

</html>
